what is up everybody welcome to a very
special Facebook live tom bill you amma
we had a lot of responses to a post that
we did on facebook soliciting questions
you guys submitted the questions these
are going to be the answers it is going
to be a lightning round I have a hard
stop at 12 so it gives us a little less
than an hour but I'm going to burn
through all of these bad boys and then
if there's time I'll also be taking live
questions so if you have a question
during any of this and follow up
something you wanted more information on
go ahead and drop it in and we will get
to that and then this could also
potentially be a new format which we'll
call the amma series all right so here
we go the first question was submitted
by melissa mutirão
what pushed you through the days when
you were living your reality but working
towards your vision obviously it takes
time so how did you stay focused on your
goals that seemed out of reach so first
and foremost this is what I call the
arrogance of belief you have to believe
that you can accomplish it so I won't
say that I ever allowed goals to seem
out of my reach there have been many
many times in my life where I was really
unsure of how I was going to pull it off
but I never let that stop me from taking
the first step and I think that's
critical so here at impact Theory were
building a studio a traditional studio
so think Disney and I think it's going
to take a very long time to outpace
Disney and I have no idea how we're
actually going to pull it off I have
some theories things we're going to try
but that didn't stop me from taking the
first step in taking a risk and knowing
that I'll be looking for opportunities
all along the way and that I won't be
afraid to pivot or go in a new direction
so that's really critical and developing
the skill the willingness to even though
you don't know exactly how you're going
to pull it off to have faith that taking
one step after another is always always
always the right answer so only
execution matters being willing to take
a risk is absolutely critical
so yeah that's always been my motto
always be learning and always be moving
forward all right the next question
comes from drea van Griezmann how did
you find what suited you for success I
followed lots of paths and have been
successful in almost all of them yet
still looking for that oh my god I'm
going to do this for the rest of my life
moment so this really comes down to how
do you find or develop a passion so I
want to differentiate between I
you find a passion I believe you develop
it so you need to look inside yourself
for areas of interest and things you
just find interesting whatever they may
be don't pass the judgement on them find
an area that overlaps ideally multiple
interests overlapping and then the
absolute critical part it overlaps with
your ability to monetize so whether that
manifests as employment and somebody
else's company whether that manifests as
being a contractor or whether that is
actually building your own business I
don't think it really matters whatever
suits your personality but at the end of
the day you need to find an area where
that interest overlaps with your ability
to monetize then you're going to begin
gaining mastery in that thing the desire
to be great I think is absolutely
critical and anybody that doesn't have a
desire to be great to push their own
skill set regardless of what other
people are saying so if the world is
pushing back on you and telling you that
it doesn't want you to be great that it
doesn't want to see you shine like Kodak
black says thank you to the people that
submitted that when I asked what song
that was that people don't want to see
you win if you can still pursue
greatness in the face of that and
wanting to develop your own skill set
then you're going to go far and it's in
the development of mastery in an area of
interest that will ultimately develop
into a passion so if you haven't found
that oh my god I want to do this for the
rest of my life moment one don't be
afraid that I don't think that anything
needs to be a forever thing and the only
thing I know about any forever company
that I do which I actually consider
impact Theory to be my forever company
is that it has to be flexible enough to
allow me to adapt and change and grow
and want to move in multiple directions
so excuse me don't be tense about that
okay the next one Luis Ramos if you
could start again with no money
connections team which industry would
you tackle and why well the great news
is that I just had that opportunity so
building quests and really wanting it to
be that flexible forever company and
just having the sort of unimaginable
success but being identified as a
protein bar company that made it
impossible for me to do this part of my
passion set which is the mind so quest
allowed me to address the body which was
amazing and I will
ever be grateful for all of the success
we had there and just still in such a
huge believer in that and still consider
myself the chief evangelist for the
company but it wouldn't allow me to
address the mind and not was really when
I turn inward is the thing that I'm most
meant to do so wanting to do that I had
the sword over I did have the good
fortune admittedly of having the money
connections and the team but nonetheless
the industry is the same so I would be
addressing the pandemic of the mind as I
see it depression and anxiety the lack
of belief in oneself the lack of belief
that you can become whatever you want to
become and wanting to do that through
the lens of narratives because I believe
that it's the most powerful way to do it
so I would still be in that industry I
would just obviously be taking a
different approach though I still would
be using social content because you can
do it for free this wouldn't look like
this we would be in this would be a
podcast I would do most of my
interviewing over the phone but none of
what I think makes me a good interviewer
cost money it takes time but it doesn't
cost money so I would still be
leveraging that all right Stacy Lee on
tough mornings and days what
specifically are you telling your mind
that gets you out of bed to keep moving
step by step methods tactics would be
awesome alright so for me I think that
you need rules that you live by so one
of the rules that I live by for instance
that gets me out of bed is literally I
have ten minutes to get out of it
and to be the person that I want to be
then that I have to get out of bed
because I have set a rule for myself so
you need to understand that behavior
drives or sorry identity drives your
behavior so you need to craft your
identity around something that's going
to get you the behaviors that you want
so I am by nature a lazy person but I
don't let that be part of my identity so
what I tell myself is I'm the type of
person that despite being lazy is always
going to do and believe that which moves
me towards my goals so adjust your
identity and the behaviors will follow
all right Brandon Vander snappin dope
name first off huge thanks for giving us
this opportunity totally my pleasure my
question is this what is your ongoing
heartfelt commitment to yourself and all
of those around you
well my entire business is really
predicated on one promise which is that
I really feel I got pulled out of the
matrix and I got pulled out of the
matrix by my wife by the books that I
read by my business partners like there
just been cumulatively all these amazing
people that have come into my life that
ultimately pulled me out of the matrix
and I swore that if I ever had ever
gotten to a position where I could pay
that forward that I would and so now
that's really the central mission of my
life is to what is the most scalable way
to give people that mentality that will
get them at the matrix so that is for
sure my most ongoing and heartfelt
commitment to myself and to others is to
give them the mental framework with
which to be successful however they
define success your question is sort of
multifaceted but I think to make sure
that I get to all of them I'm going to
have to stop there sorry Gen Jerome does
your ego allow you to take advice from
someone now your wife doesn't count like
do you only allow yes men around you I
don't mean any of this in a bad way you
were awesome to me but I was wondering
when you get to that to the level that
you're at can you still listen if you're
doing something wrong let me tell you
hey I don't think that you're ever going
to succeed at the level that you want if
you can't learn and you're sure as hell
not going to stay at that level if you
can't learn so the only thing I can
promise you is that change is coming for
you the world is changing so rapidly
that I think at the core of anybody with
an anti fragile personality you
absolutely must be willing to sit at
somebody else's feet with absolutely no
ego and learn so I know I'm wrong about
just an unimaginable amount of things
and I'm always looking to get better and
so my identity is that of the learner so
the only distressing thing I find in
your question is does your ego allow you
to take advice from someone now I have
like my life and my success is
predicated on the fact that I'm always
trying to learn from everybody I believe
everybody is my superior in some way and
I'm just trying to extract as much
knowledge from people as humanly
possible so the longer the shorter that
is ABB's
lutely and not the least of which is my
wife who I think also has amazing
answers I do not surround myself with
yes men these people here tell me no all
too often
but no I love it and it's definitely
what makes us I think sets us up for
success all right Cory McLennan what is
your brand I'm not taking the piss you
revealed yourself is British with that
one I actually get a lot out of your
interviews but I never saw what was
before that did your vision always look
like what we see today or did it evolve
with your brand and where do I start I'm
not sure why eyes and quotes but okay so
the I think what you're asking is what
was the brand that made me successful
the answer that was quest nutrition I
built that with two co-founders very
long and I think very interesting story
of how we went from not liking what we
did selling that company and then
founding this on purely on passion and
value creation and not focusing on money
and then oddly enough and not focusing
on money anymore and really just singing
about what's valuable we were able to
build a massive brand it was very very
exciting and there were always two
things I knew I would do with my life
not always but as I got deep into my
business career once I clicked over in a
passion I should say once I clicked over
into passion I always knew there were
two things that I was going to address
and that was the pandemic at the body
and the pandemic of a mind so that's
where I'm at now Quest is addressing the
pandemic of the body and impact theory
is addressing the pandemic of the mind
which me as anxiety depression not
believing that you can do anything you
set your mind to
so I ask myself the the question no
[__] what would it take to give
people the mentality they would need to
get themselves out of the matrix and the
answer is that you have to use narrative
to impart the ethos that is at the core
of impact theory so that's what we're
doing all right
adele con one view confuse the word
suffering with struggle brendan
bouchard's mentioned in his audio book
manifesto of motivation I think is the
motivation manifesto I'm not sure that
struggle is necessary but suffering is
not so I don't confuse them but I do
think that both are important things to
acknowledge and recognize and so I
define them like this so suffering I
think you have to be willing to suffer
in order to grow
and change I think suffering is a thing
that allows you to do that but Brendan's
point you're going to struggle you're
going to go through hard times but you
can choose not to suffer in that and I
think that actually even though I really
really find the willingness to suffer to
be very very important I also think that
it's just absolutely critical to develop
the ability to understand how you can
switch off the suffering watch the
episode that I did of impact Theory with
David Goggins to really get insight into
how I see the usability of suffering
itself both how to deal with it and how
to leverage it so that was amazing and
then - any plans to work directly with
Brendan Bouchard so I just met him for
the first time a couple months ago at a
success live event and found him to be
such a nice guy
I was literally like dumbfounded so
imagine you're walking down the hall
you've never met somebody before ever in
your life and from like 30 feet down the
hallway somebody screams your name like
they know you like you're a long-lost
friend and he was so kind and so
generous and just giving me all kinds of
useful information about how to grow a
social following and how to be
meaningful to your community of so cool
so the second Brendan wants to do
something I would do with him in a
heartbeat he's amazing want to get him
on the show do an interview with him I
really really think he's a special guy
Andrew pastan uh how did it feel when
you purchased your first big-ticket item
was it a full-circle [__] yeah moment
where you realize all of your hard work
paid off or was it just another car
house moment I think it is so dangerous
to let any moment be just another
whatever moment so even when it's like
small like I try not to take for granted
the way my wife's smile eats her face so
that's just one of my things and she's
actually behind the camera right now
smiling for me when she smiles like that
really big authentic smile it actually
looks like it's going to consume her
whole face and I love that more than I
can possibly tell you and I remind
myself to be grateful for that and to
see the beauty and to let it affect me
on a neurochemical level to step out on
my balcony and just enjoy
rise or a sunset or just a view like all
that stuff's critical so when my wife
and I bought our first really big ticket
item which was the house that were now
we really let it affect us and we were
like oh my god like I can't believe it
we were freaking out we were like little
kids even just when we started house
shopping and to know like the budget
that we could play in was nuts and you
know as somebody who grew up in Tacoma
Washington and not being around money
and you know really like making my wife
who grew up around resourcing broke rich
but she definitely grew up much better
off than I did and I made her clip
coupons for years because I basically
made her poor for a stent and to not
take for granted how far we've come I
think is just absolutely critical and so
yeah the the first purchase was just
inspiring and amazing and I tried never
to take it for granted all right
Benedict Allah Papp how did you change
your belief system from passive
victimhood to proactive and responsible
leader leader entrepreneur did this have
to do with the relationship to your
sister that's interesting I get because
I talk so much about my sister but no it
had nothing to do with my sister so how
did I change my belief system I became
goal obsessed so once I became goal
obsessed and I was like okay I'm trying
to get here what are the things that are
actually going to allow me to do that
that was really really important for me
and just a huge part of my development
so in doing that that really gut checked
me with a lot of my belief system and I
think that is really critical so that
gut check just made me realize that I
was going to have to develop a growth
mindset unfortunately didn't have those
words but that was a path that it put me
on to developing a growth mindset that
would allow me to actually achieve my
goals okay LK Elliot how did you build
your brand with quest and impact theory
your branding and community has been so
powerful
how'd you create it okay so quest was
really a company born at a misery so
before that I was chasing money and I
was just hell bent
get rich and I spent eight and a half
years chasing money building a company
that they didn't really care about and
thought while we solve the problem for
people certainly wasn't something I was
passionate about I don't think it was
really something even people buying a
repass unit about oddly enough actually
made it hard and it certainly made it
soul-sucking and so at the end of that I
realized I was not willing to do it
anymore and I actually went into my
partners and I said I quit I can't keep
doing this I gave them the equity back
in the company I said this is just total
misery for me I can't be a part of this
and long story short I only have two
minutes per answer they said you know
what we actually feel the same way and
for three very different reasons we
decided to get into nutrition and we
agreed that it was going to be a company
predicated on value creation for the
employees and the customer that it would
be a passion play that we would ask the
question what would we do and love every
day even if we were failing and by
shifting our focus over to that and
really focusing on something that was
fun for us that we can enjoy in the
moment that was creating value for other
people it was just a total game changer
and it focused us on building community
and making an amazing product that was
actually good and holding ourselves to
just a totally different standard than
we had been holding ourselves to before
so it really was a radical shift that
made us think about branding up until
that point we never really thought about
branding it was always the product we
were trying to brand and not the company
and so that was a big shift with impact
theory I'm really trying to take that to
the next level and really truly being
entirely community focused and yeah just
how far can we push the notion of value
creation so you'll notice this show
right now what I'm doing right here is
marketing but it's all value added so we
don't do like your traditional like
you're not going to see like ads and
stuff I won't say we won't ever do it
but if it helps build the community I
would do it in a second but all of our
marketing is value add so this is all
free we give it away and we do that
because we want people to understand how
sincerely we want to positively impact
your life because we want that to be the
brand ethos we want people to understand
that literally
the ground up this company is designed
to help we find to monetize it fun to
make a whole lot of money doing it but I
believe the only thing that's
sustainable that you can sell for the
long term is value so that's we're all
about and then the second part knowing
that it's physically possible Milan etc
and that people did it isn't enough
would be great how exactly did it so I
think I sort of covered that but
basically a focus on community build
community make a great product those are
the the shorthand answers okay
locks rain what was the single moment
that catapulted you towards your first
step what clicked for you that changed
and turned it around insight wisdom
wisdom a experience that helps you put
it all the other wisdom and experiences
help you put it all together so this
this is very similar to the last
question it really was frustration take
a tasty beverage disappear bear with me
one second it really was more an insight
to what I didn't want to do anymore
and I think that's important to
acknowledge like I got fed up I got
frustrated with not feeling alive with
not loving what I was doing every day
with feeling like man you got one shot
at this
this is your one life this is it you're
not coming back so what are you doing to
make account and realizing that the game
you're playing is actually brain
chemistry so feeling good in the moment
is all that matters so I wanted to
structure my life in a way where I would
actually enjoy the day today so
frustration is the only honest answer
and I actually it wasn't just
frustration it was despair despair was
my first step and I was unwilling
anymore to continue on the way that I
was and yeah that was the the key
insight for me despair there you go all
you have to do is hit rock bottom and
you too can go on to do what you love
we're a little easier hopefully you guys
can learn and not have to learn from me
and not have to put yourself through
that so there are ways to monetize doing
what you love and what you believe in
you have to look inward to figure out
what that is develop a passion it's not
something you uncover or find we talked
about that earlier alright Allen Cruz do
you have a customer experience
department at quest if so will you share
the success you have that department if
not why if not can I start one for you
that's very kind offer we do have one so
our customer support department and
really quite frankly every department
from the ground up is meant to
evangelize the customer that was our
whole thing right from the beginning is
you have to if not enough to take care
of the customer you have to evangelize
them now very important point very
critical to realize that starts with
evangelizing your employees first and
you really do have to be an employee
first company if your employees are
bitter they're going to pass it on to
the customer and so taking really really
good care of your employee is absolutely
critical now it's harder than it sounds
and I have made my share my fair share
of mistakes there but that remains like
a core value for me and something that I
take very seriously to make sure that
the employees believe in what you're
doing understand what you're doing are
better for having worked at your company
and that's really my promise that every
employee is that if you work here your
life will be better than if you hadn't
and making good on that promise is hard
as hell but I think that every
entrepreneur has to hold themselves to
that standard and really accept
responsibility when you're falling down
on that assess how you're falling down
on that why you're falling down on that
make adjustments and yeah go forward so
that's super super critical and going
above and beyond going way over the top
for your customers that's also really
critical and a great way to build
community and build a business by the
way to not always be thinking about
eking every bit of profitability out but
instead think of the emotional reaction
that the customer has to your brand as
the profitability and I just really
believe if the customer believes in your
mission believes in the company wants to
support it that in the long run you're
just going to be way more profitable so
always putting that first I think is
just smart business
all right Jonathan Jay what would be
your strategy if you didn't have social
media web well it would take you back to
I mean I can only go backwards right so
I don't know what looking forwards is
going to look like without social media
in the web and maybe we evolved past it
almost certainly things change so
rapidly but looking back I mean it was
traditional marketing and advertising so
being high-touch is where I shine so I
think that given if I were in the same
circumstance as I am now just I didn't
have social media and the web I would be
doing a lot more event to be doing a lot
more speaking engagements I'd be
building the community one by one
meeting artists and writers and
creatives is going to be so critical to
my go forward business I would still be
based here in LA I would still be
building relationships with those people
and then it would be excuse me it would
be a much more direct path to the
creating the content I would have to
rely much more heavily on the
traditional means of getting that done
and so instead of because what we're
doing now is essentially building the
community but telling the community all
along the way to know what to expect
from us that we're going to be building
a studio that we're going to need your
help identifying what content to put
resources behind all that to engage
community and that's not a surprise when
we start doing that but really really
believe that building the community is
step one and it's so much easier to do
with social media in the web so I would
forego that without it I would focus
more on creating my persona which I
think it's very critical and if you look
at what Disney did I'm very much
modeling myself after that which swive
stepped out front all that but looking
at the way that Disney built-in ethos on
the brand umbrella so that's what we
reduced there'd be only certain types of
content that we would create but I would
leverage the traditional distribution
means to do that
okay so Moody amaura how long did it
take you to have a net worth of over a
billion dollars it's funny I've heard
people make comments like that before
I'm not a billionaire I don't have a net
worth over a billion dollars our company
had a net worth over a billion dollars
but I had two other partners so you got
to divide everything in a third
so I'll let you know when I finally
cross that mark Andres Roseau Asia very
I'm sure I just brutalized that name
what is the best way to meet prospects
at the start well oddly enough social
media in the web so depending on what
you're trying to do that's a very
generic answer but nowadays getting the
awareness through social media is so
easy because it's free so and I say easy
compared to what it used to be where you
have to throw money at the problem and
just getting people to pay attention to
you there were a thousand out
gatekeepers that could stop you because
they were the only ways to get out in
front of people it was much harder to do
groundswell but one thing I will say
have an awesome product like having an
awesome product is always the right
answer so focus on that make your
product great whatever your product is
going to be and if it actually solves
the problem start giving it away giving
away a problem that's are giving away a
product that's amazing and solves a
problem is is just always going to be
the fastest way to getting things done
because then people are going to talk
about it but yeah really making pain go
away for people is super important okay
Ariel Huskins what was the single most
valuable tool you use to create your
business well that's really twofold
there's only you have two to give to
answer that one your product has to be
amazing okay that there's just no
substitute for that and that's why I
really encourage people get great at
something like get really good focus on
being amazing focus on being
extraordinary outperforming everybody
else having something that nobody else
can match like that is so important and
I think that in the with the Millennial
desire for immediacy and anybody quite
frankly that uses social media where
it's so fast like there's you can get
something out really rapidly you can get
feedback really rapidly and
even just uh forget social media like
the mobile generation I could order
something from Amazon now and and it'll
be delivered by the time I'm done like
with this segment it's crazy how fast so
we've all really been trained to want
things immediately and that's why I
think the people that are willing to go
head down and do the work are still
going to be the ones that win because
there's the getting to the physics of
the problem the physics of the problem
is the human condition and the only way
to get people's attention is to wow them
to solve a problem for them to excite
them to entertain them whatever but that
only happens when it's actually good
it's actually impressive it captures
their imagination it captures their
attention it draws them into your
universe so that is just super super
critical so the people that go heads
down do the work to create an amazing
product you're going to win the second
part of that is that you really have to
leverage building a community community
is everything because they're going to
be the ones that help you spread that
word so building a community
evangelizing them making them love your
product helping them understand what it
means to use your product and what they
represent to the world when they're
using your product that is just really
really important so those are the those
are the two things an amazing product
and building a community around it okay
Ariel Huskins I guess part two looks
like she snuck in or he snuck in two
questions what's the best and worst
thing about competition with other
companies in your space the best thing
about it is they push you to innovate in
no uncertain terms like having that
competitive pressure triggering in you
that competitive drive to want to keep
pushing and being better and having
somebody that's making you sweat I think
that's always pretty advantageous so
yeah that's the best the worst part
about it is god it can create a
confusing message to the consumer and
that is very very true back at quest
where I felt like man we make products
that are way more real than
99% of our competitors and yet there was
a lot of noise from the competitors that
muddy the issue of nutrition which is
already confusing as hell so that got
really frustrating that people would
start to listen to what I felt was a
metabolically worse message and product
than what we were putting out there and
youself to deal with all of that so that
was the worst part they can really muddy
the waters especially if your product
relies on some degree of understanding
in a difficult space so for me anyway
that was the worst Joe Schneider what
one thing took quest from 1 million to 1
billion it's the the same two things I
know yes for one but you really have to
have both it was the product in the
community those two things were what
really allowed us to leapfrog the
product was real in fact I'm going to
throw in another thing and so if you're
going to make me isolate and sort of
forget those other two things the one
thing that we had that a lot of people
didn't have that gave us a huge
advantage was our ability to execute
operationally at the production level so
we became our own manufacturers because
nobody else would manufacture the
product that we wanted so in order to
make that great product that I think is
so necessary we had to be willing to
manufacture it ourselves and that was a
huge huge leap forward nobody else was
doing that let us make a product that
was really unique and gave us probably a
three year head start on everybody else
while they really struggled to keep up
and alter their equipment enough to
allow them to make the same product that
we were making so that was just super
super critical
Jordan demco is it a good idea to find a
mentor absolutely even if that mentor is
only books there's a great quote from
Socrates read so that you may learn with
ease what other men have struggled
greatly to learn that's a paraphrase
forgive me but that's the idea right
that people are putting into books like
they're taking 10 20 30 years of
knowledge and condensing it down to
something that you can consume in a week
so that's arbitrage so be sure always be
reading a br that is like that sits at
the center of my universe
I'm just always reading always reading
always reading always trying to learn
always trying to push my skill set so
that is really really critical and so
think of those authors as your mentors
you don't necessarily need a
flesh-and-blood mentor although they are
awesome as well and you can ask them
questions but especially in today's
social age I think the ability to get
digital mentors has just never been
easier so yeah
find those people that you resonate with
and maybe understand your industry or
what you're trying to get into and and
engage with them socially like I it is
so meaningful to me to get these
questions because it gives me an
opportunity to deliver value to the
community so like this is a great
opportunity for people to get their
questions answered so you're delivering
me value and hopefully on delivering
value back and there are a lot of
amazing people that are doing something
similar to this so take advantage
whoever speaks most clearly to you Kevin
Holt how do you actually make money like
me personally if that's the answer by
selling product so at Qwest that was
really simple sell protein bars so
protein chips protein powder that was
how I made money there how do I make
money at impact Theory right now we're
in a building phase I'm not worried
about monetizing yet I'm in a very
fortunate position that I don't have to
so that's put us in a very unique
position that I never anticipated but
I'm leveraging to the hilt which is that
I can build a community predicated on
value and build a brand doing that my
ultimate money-making plan is
merchandise so I believe that if you can
create intellectual property that
resonates with people on on an ethos
level where it's like how do I live my
life what are all the things that I need
to be thinking and doing I think that
you can really build a powerful
community that then leverages that
merchandise to do what's called self
signaling where they're signaling they
are intending to signal to other people
but they really reinforce in themselves
their ideology and I believe that we
have a unique ideology here that's going
to pull people out of the matrix that
will allow us to create traditional
narrative content so the easiest way to
explain it is look at what
Disney's done so the way that Disney
built their studio has never been
replicated it's crazy to me that has
never been replicated and what they
understood but nobody else seems to
understand that we plan to have the
discipline to replicate is every piece
of content that Disney creates feeds
into the brand ethos so if you say that
you're going to go see a Warner Brothers
movie nobody knows what you're talking
about they don't know what kind of movie
are going to see but if you say I'm
going to go see a Disney movie people
know exactly what kind of movie you're
about to go see so that's what we want
to do and we want to create books comic
books TV shows movies and video games
that's really how you get narrative to
people and while we'll make money on
that that's not the real big play the
real big play is merchandise which by
the way you can go right now to impact
theory calm and behind some of our
merchandise which ultimately isn't I
don't think we're ever going to make a
lot of money off of impact Theory
merchandise but we will ultimately make
a lot of money on the properties that we
make underneath that so if you think of
a comic book turning into a movie and
then all the subsequent merchandising
that kicks off of that that's where the
real money is made and so like take
George Lucas and Star Wars he made
billions of dollars of merchandising not
off the property itself so that's our
path to revenue and so we're in a very
fortunate position where we can build
community first and worry about the
money later yeah which i think is the
right way to do it just most people
can't afford to and then Valerie Vieira
Gardner do you like turtles I'm
indifferent I'm glad they exist I would
hate to see them become extinct but I
can't say they make my daily radar so
there you have it
Patrick Smith why are you a good
bullshitter if you mean why do I have
good verbal skills which I'll choose to
believe is what you mean because I have
practiced it I think that I am wired for
it so I think that that is an early win
but I don't think early wins take you
very far I've worked very very hard
since about the seventh grade to get
adept at verbal communication when I was
in high school for instance I used to do
essentially improv stand-up comedy I am
sitting down improv comedy at my lunch
table
pretty much every day Monday through
Friday for four years so that alone was
worth its weight in gold and then on top
of that I did Speech and Debate in high
school so I spend an inordinate amount
of hours not only doing it but competing
at it so yeah it's been something that I
have put the number I've put more than
20,000 hours into getting good at verbal
communication so yeah I'll choose to
believe that's what you were meaning to
ask me via Raymond how did you get out
of distractions that comes down to
identity so I was diagnosed with a DD
when I was a kid but because I could
sleep through the night my mother
refused to medicate me yay
and sorry not a DD hyperactivity
disorder so bouncing off the walls yeah
that's a much more accurate description
of myself so as an adult I just learned
to train myself to focus because when I
start to drift I remind myself that that
doesn't move me towards my goals and my
identity is to always be goal driven and
so I refocus myself like I was just
doing that today I opened my phone to go
into something else and had that like I
saw that I had responses waiting for me
on social and I so wanted to dive into
that I got that like dopamine rush oh
you're about to go in into social and
have interactions yay
and I thought nope that doesn't jive
with my identity and I'm much more
emotionally and chemically rewarded for
being true to my identity so my identity
keeps me focused so and then also by the
way I keep a list of the most important
things I could be doing any one time so
when I find myself drifting and I'm not
sure what I should be paying attention
to I just dive into that that's really
really helped Matt Davis where can I get
one of those Effie man t-shirts which
stands for Ironman I got it on Amazon as
I get virtually everything that I don't
make so yeah there you have it all right
Paul Dominique how do you get
high-profile mentors by delivering a
crushing amount of value do not reach
out to the mentor and say how can I help
that puts the onus on them and is
the exact opposite of value and they
will almost certainly just ignore you
plus it makes it feel bad because they
don't want to ignore you like there are
a lot of really cool people out there
that actually want to help do you have
to facilitate them helping because
they're getting hit up all day every day
by people are like how can I help how
can I help how can I help and that's a
pain in the ass so if you really want a
high profile mentor do the following
find out what is valuable to them find
out what their mission is in life what's
that thing that they're trying to do
find out how your skill set makes you
adept at doing part of that for them
better than anyone else so and then go
explain to them how you're going to help
them get what they want and tell them
I'm going to work for you for 90 days
for free I'm going to work harder and
smarter than anyone you've ever met at
the end of the 90 days if I have
delivered value to put me on payroll or
if you just want a mentorship great and
if not at least I got knowledge and
connections and that's all that I'm
looking for but it's really about
figuring out how then mentoring you
helps them that's what you have to show
them because if it only helps you why
would they do it
right so you really have to put yourself
in their shoes and know that like every
human being they're going to be selfish
so you have to show them how mentoring
you is a win that is the big thing and I
really cannot emphasize enough it is so
lazy to ask the other person how you can
help them you need to go armed knowing
so much about them what they're trying
to accomplish and then detailing for
them exactly how you plan to help them
achieve that so that they can see that
the most selfish thing they could do
would be to mentor you all right so
we're getting low on time but I do have
ten and a half more minutes
chase do we have any questions coming in
all right you want to just run over here
real fast and throw them out yeah
what is up everyone so we got a question
from dish' hua Rana hey Tom is worth
risking job security for an unplanned
future and dreams ah so I don't think
that you have to be binary like that I
don't think that you have to burn the
ships at the shore I think at the end of
the day you can do it nights weekends
you can do the side hustle and then just
prove it out there really is something
there that's certainly what we did at
Quest so we were running a technology
company by day and then we were building
quests at nights and weekends and then
once we saw that it was taking off then
I left that and went to do quests
full-time but I think that there are
ways to head your downside which I
actually think is pretty important and
taking a cue from Richard Branson one of
the most successful entrepreneurs of all
time
heads you down side wherever possible
yada so another question from John belt
why couldn't you do what you're doing
now with the name inside quest what made
you want to change into a brand new
company and not just adapted to quest
because what I found was we were
building two separate fan bases
communities so unfortunately for me
because I would have much rather done
that the community just there wasn't
overlap like people did not see the
connect like why is a protein bar
company doing a show about the mind that
people just kept asking that and also my
partners and I did not share a vision
for it so it would have been very
stressful to try and drag them along in
the process which inevitably was going
to be very expensive and take years to
build that community and years to get
people to understand how body and mind
are integrated and all that so I thought
you know what rather than do that it
just makes more sense to spin this out
into a standalone company the reason we
didn't keep the name inside quest is
because that intellectual property is
owned by quest so even though I own a
third of it I only own a third of it and
so like trying to like pull that out
just would have been weird also
rebranding gave us a chance to get away
from the identity of the protein bar
company and create something entirely
new an impact theory was certainly
ideologically much more in alignment
with what I'm trying to accomplish so
yeah that's why
so question from Tyrone Davis and all
caps I saw the interview with Goggins it
was a deep question do you believe that
suffering is inherent with change or do
you think that whatever decision that we
make we will gain something and we will
lose something or is all just a matter
of Atlantic rhetoric either you're good
at it or not I don't know what it
Leonard
rhetoric is and I'll answer the rest of
the question I don't think that
suffering is necessarily a part of
change but I do believe that to really
transform they're going to be moments of
suffering I'm like trying to brag Nate
is there a time where that's not true so
there are definitely moments of change
that are pain-free where if you can
learn from somebody else like that's
incredible
but I found like the deeper you go into
like your belief system the harder it is
the change without some sort of moment
of crisis without some sort of moment of
collision conflict something to really
force you to like take that big step so
I won't say it's inevitable but I'll say
that God it gets real close that how
about this it is inevitable that in a
grand enough journey there will be
extreme moments of suffering now back to
one of the earlier questions can you
turn off suffering struggle is
inevitable but suffering is not
suffering the choice and I do think that
like at some level that's true but I've
never met a human being that didn't
suffer at least to the point where then
you have to learn to make peace with it
like for instance I would just tell you
that when I'm doing a fast would you and
I did together it sucks but you can
actually embrace the suck as David
Goggin says and once you begin to
embrace it the suffering takes on a
different note and so it doesn't feel
like that imposed upon you suffering
which has its own layer of pain so one
thing I find very interesting in the
brain like if you go to a hypnotist they
can hypnotize you to not feel pain that
actually isn't true because there's pain
and their suffering so the the signal
the pain signal is still going to your
brain but the area of your brain that
registers this stimulus this pain is bad
which is what makes it suffering
switches off
so I think you can shut that off I just
think that it's inevitable that you're
going to go through it at least
temporarily until you get to the point
where okay now I've got control of it
I'm going to turn that part of my brain
off so and the moral of my story with
all of that is don't fear suffering like
don't do something based on whether or
not you think you're going to suffer but
do learn to make friends with the
suffering do learn to see the power in
it that's very very advantageous and
then that actually makes the suffering
less I keep takeaway not as well as from
an search for meaning Viktor Frankl said
that you don't need to suffer to find
meaning but you can't find meaning in
suffering I think that's a key takeaway
when we can provide a sign said way
better then Viktor Frankl says
everything better than I do so yeah
let's see I think we have time for maybe
one more yeah we got a six minute mark
so okay we'll do one or two more so from
Victor Salgado Tom's any plan away
Viktor is OG quest Google assuming this
is the same picture sold out onthe Tom
and he plans on writing a book yes we
are literally working on that as we
speak so we're in negotiations with the
ghostwriter right now and assuming that
we're able to pull that off essentially
what they're going to do is go through
all the content that we've created boil
it down into one narrative about how to
get yourself out of the matrix
so it'll be all my words just taken from
all at this point we've put out hundreds
of hours of content that all contains
you know the belief system about how to
get out of the matrix they're going to
consolidate it because the reason that
I've pushed it off is I can't justify
the time it takes me to actually sit and
write but I've put all of the ideas out
there so that would be an amazing
solution to that problem so yes our hope
is that by call it midsummer 2018 that
the book would drop cool excited as well
so last question from Nico Rose how do
you get yourself to believe in yourself
when your doubts and fears dominate you
all right so this is do and believe that
which moves you towards your goals so if
you can allow yourself to believe the
following humans lead with belief what I
mean by that is you won't take the first
step unless you believe you can get
there so you don't have to believe
you're capable of doing it today you
just have to believe you can become
capable of it now if you don't already
believe that then believe this
humans are an adaptation machine period
that's just fact you can look at the way
the brain does a process called
myelination and we can learn anything so
when you were born you couldn't walk you
couldn't talk you've learned all of that
those are way more difficult skills you
don't think they are you totally
discount them because you did it when
you were young they're actually way more
difficult skills to learn than whatever
talent skill thing that you're trying to
get good at so through a discipline
practice all things are possible so if
you can believe that humans are an
adaptation machine that you don't need
to know how you're going to get there
when you first start but you have to
start in order to do the discipline
practice in order to get good but you
just have to take that first step keep
putting one foot in front of the other
making demands of yourself to put in the
time the energy to look at yourself and
honestly assess where you are and what
you need to do to be good at it
then that I mean that literally to me
that's just looking at the physics of
the problem that was me not going am i
extraordinary it was me going what is
the truth of the human condition how
does a human get good at something and
then doing it so and also just realizing
that your brain is lying to you
so insecurities are totally worthless
they do not serve you so you have to
jettison them to bless the only reason
anxiety is good is to get you to take
something seriously to make sure you put
in the work to get good at it so I get
anxious before every interview but if I
didn't then I wouldn't take them as
seriously I wouldn't put in all the work
and then the interview would be as good
so I'm grateful for it in that sense but
I don't let it escalate and to where
it's becoming like panic because then
it's actually deleterious to your
performance so again do and believe that
which moves you towards your goals well
said word that's it for right now boo
yeah alright everybody thank you so much
this camera might now be on me and be
wider so I'll take a risk and say guys
thank you so much for joining me again
this was an Emma hopefully we'll be
doing more of these so what happened was
we put a post up on Facebook we said
submit your questions you guys submitted
them and that was a lightning round
answer which is very different normally
I probably only answer five or six
questions in an hour which is fun I get
to go down tangents but
a lot of people don't get their
questions answered so this is you guys
heating that call for questions doing a
lightning round answer which we'll call
the amma series based on the reddit
thing which hopefully watch to integrate
with reddit here at some point in the
near future so thank you for submitting
your questions and give me the chance to
answer them
if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe and thank you guys so much
until next time to be legendary
take care
you